# Agentic AI

Source: https://www.anthropic.com/research/building-effective-agents

Skip to main content  Skip to footer

Research

Economic Futures

Commitments

Learn

News

Try Claude

Engineering at Anthropic

Building effective agents

Published  Dec 19, 2024  We&#x27;ve worked with dozens of teams building LLM agents across industries. Consistently, the most successful implementations use simple, composable patterns rather than complex frameworks.

Over the past year, we&#x27;ve worked with dozens of teams building large language model (LLM) agents across industries. Consistently, the most successful implementations weren&#x27;t using complex frameworks or specialized libraries. Instead, they were building with simple, composable patterns.  In this post, we share what we’ve learned from working with our customers and building agents ourselves, and give practical advice for developers on building effective agents.  What are agents?

Agent  can be defined in several ways. Some customers define agents as fully autonomous systems that operate independently over extended periods, using various tools to accomplish complex tasks. Others use the term to describe more prescriptive implementations that follow predefined workflows. At Anthropic, we categorize all these variations as  agentic systems , but draw an important architectural distinction between  workflows  and  agents :

Workflows  are systems where LLMs and tools are orchestrated through predefined code paths.

Agents , on the other hand, are systems where LLMs dynamically direct their own processes and tool usage, maintaining control over how they accomplish tasks.

Below, we will explore both types of agentic systems in detail. In Appendix 1 (“Agents in Practice”), we describe two domains where customers have found particular value in using these kinds of systems.  When (and when not) to use agents  When building applications with LLMs, we recommend finding the simplest solution possible, and only increasing complexity when needed. This might mean not building agentic systems at all. Agentic systems often trade latency and cost for better task performance, and you should consider when this tradeoff makes sense.  When more complexity is warranted, workflows offer predictability and consistency for well-defined tasks, whereas agents are the better option when flexibility and model-driven decision-making are needed at scale. For many applications, however, optimizing single LLM calls with retrieval and in-context examples is usually enough.  When and how to use frameworks  There are many frameworks that make agentic systems easier to implement, including:

The  Claude Agent SDK ;

Strands Agents SDK by AWS ;

Rivet , a drag and drop GUI LLM workflow builder; and

Vellum , another GUI tool for building and testing complex workflows.

These frameworks make it easy to get started by simplifying standard low-level tasks like calling LLMs, defining and parsing tools, and chaining calls together. However, they often create extra layers of abstraction that can obscure the underlying prompts ​​and responses, making them harder to debug. They can also make it tempting to add complexity when a simpler setup would suffice.  We suggest that developers start by using LLM APIs directly: many patterns can be implemented in a few lines of code. If you do use a framework, ensure you understand the underlying code. Incorrect assumptions about what&#x27;s under the hood are a common source of customer error.  See our  cookbook  for some sample implementations.  Building blocks, workflows, and agents  In this section, we’ll explore the common patterns for agentic systems we’ve seen in production. We&#x27;ll start with our foundational building block—the augmented LLM—and progressively increase complexity, from simple compositional workflows to autonomous agents.  Building block: The augmented LLM  The basic building block of agentic systems is an LLM enhanced with augmentations such as retrieval, tools, and memory. Our current models can actively use these capabilities—generating their own search queries, selecting appropriate tools, and determining what information to retain.

The augmented LLM

We recommend focusing on two key aspects of the implementation: tailoring these capabilities to your specific use case and ensuring they provide an easy, well-documented interface for your LLM. While there are many ways to implement these augmentations, one approach is through our recently released  Model Context Protocol , which allows developers to integrate with a growing ecosystem of third-party tools with a simple  client implementation .  For the remainder of this post, we&#x27;ll assume each LLM call has access to these augmented capabilities.  Workflow: Prompt chaining  Prompt chaining decomposes a task into a sequence of steps, where each LLM call processes the output of the previous one. You can add programmatic checks (see  gate” in the diagram below) on any intermediate steps to ensure that the process is still on track.

The prompt chaining workflow

When to use this workflow:  This workflow is ideal for situations where the task can be easily and cleanly decomposed into fixed subtasks. The main goal is to trade off latency for higher accuracy, by making each LLM call an easier task.

Examples where prompt chaining is useful:

Generating Marketing copy, then translating it into a different language.  Writing an outline of a document, checking that the outline meets certain criteria, then writing the document based on the outline.

Workflow: Routing  Routing classifies an input and directs it to a specialized followup task. This workflow allows for separation of concerns, and building more specialized prompts. Without this workflow, optimizing for one kind of input can hurt performance on other inputs.

The routing workflow

When to use this workflow:  Routing works well for complex tasks where there are distinct categories that are better handled separately, and where classification can be handled accurately, either by an LLM or a more traditional classification model/algorithm.

Examples where routing is useful:

Directing different types of customer service queries (general questions, refund requests, technical support) into different downstream processes, prompts, and tools.  Routing easy/common questions to smaller, cost-efficient models like Claude Haiku 4.5 and hard/unusual questions to more capable models like Claude Sonnet 4.5 to optimize for best performance.

Workflow: Parallelization  LLMs can sometimes work simultaneously on a task and have their outputs aggregated programmatically. This workflow, parallelization, manifests in two key variations:

Sectioning : Breaking a task into independent subtasks run in parallel.

Voting:  Running the same task multiple times to get diverse outputs.

The parallelization workflow

When to use this workflow:  Parallelization is effective when the divided subtasks can be parallelized for speed, or when multiple perspectives or attempts are needed for higher confidence results. For complex tasks with multiple considerations, LLMs generally perform better when each consideration is handled by a separate LLM call, allowing focused attention on each specific aspect.

Examples where parallelization is useful:

Sectioning :  Implementing guardrails where one model instance processes user queries while another screens them for inappropriate content or requests. This tends to perform better than having the same LLM call handle both guardrails and the core response.  Automating evals for evaluating LLM performance, where each LLM call evaluates a different aspect of the model’s performance on a given prompt.

Voting :  Reviewing a piece of code for vulnerabilities, where several different prompts review and flag the code if they find a problem.  Evaluating whether a given piece of content is inappropriate, with multiple prompts evaluating different aspects or requiring different vote thresholds to balance false positives and negatives.

Workflow: Orc